it is a frame work.
contain predefined methods can do design by following this
basic is javascript lang.
used for client server side
typescript is a superset of javascript.


setup:
vscode is using as code editor.


for including/import third party codes, package manager is needed.
here we using node package manager.

npm.

version more than 12 is needed for angular.
javascript is dynamic type language.
eg:declared 3 variables,if one value is assigned one variable. den value changed to same variable.it doesnot find error.
interface is not there.


so type script developed it is superscript of javascript.
broswer contain javascript engine only.so convertinng typescript into javascript called transpiling.
angular also using real dom.
for writing in angular,typescript is using.



angular installation:
 sudo npm install -g @angular/cli

 To know version:npm version

 to find angular version: ng version
 npm i -g @angular/cli


demo project in angular:
ng new projectname
eg: ng new demo

routing:
routing should be enabled if our webpages contain more than one pages.
it should be permitted while doing project.
angular wll automatically create a folder.

 








for mongodb:64 bit is needed.(windows)







angular projuct modules



our project should always in running state
 never close that.

 browswers listrc: angular and other browsers compatibility is in this file.

 editorconfig:
 the configrtn btween angular and vscode

 .gitignore:all these not added into gitignore

angularjson: command line interface
karma.conf.js:testing tool.
package.json:npm configuration file.

third party library code contain into our package-that is third party wriiten code can use in our project

tsconfig:typescript files


all these are automatically come when project installed

e2e is for testing:
node_modules:  keep a copy if we are uusing third party  library code


src is a sourcecode:
test.ts:for test
style.css -if more than one webpages, global style can use with the help of style.css
index.html:application entry file

angular contain atleast 1 module:

main.ts:import external file
our module name is the name inside bootstrap module in main.ts
rootmodule is appmodule.

first angular goto main.ts then app.modulee.ts then @decoration


angular

program code is run by angularcli
so third party server is giving compiling.not browser.but they are using the real dom
so output is in webpage's browser.
so they will convert into javascript.
golive will not compile.
 so server is in running state.
 np serve --open


 components are angular bulding block.for designing we should have html file.
 when we creating components we will get 4 files.



in appmodule.ts who is inside bootstrap,that is our root component.

approot in index.html show dat corresponding html page.that is app.component.html
so,selector will work in corresponding html page.that selector move to corresponding html.

for creating new component:
 ng g c test
 {ng generate component component_name}

 if we want to remove any component,we should do it manually.
 remove the component first.
 go to app.module.ts - remove testcomponents
 check errors,and remove each wherever deleted files exist.
 




